---
title: Rules and regulations
permalink: /hc/rules-and-regulations
key: hc-rules-and-regulations
---

Our community's rules is how we keep things organized and make sure that everyone is doing what they're supposed to. If you notice that someone is in violation of the rules, you should follow the [reporting procedures](#reporting).

## Community guidelines
Our community guidelines are the ones that you can see on our [rules page](../rules).

These guidelines are designed to be short and memorable for everyone to judge their conduct on the server and whether their actions are helping or hurting the community. In most cases, if you don't think your conduct fits all of our "big five", it probably isn't allowed.

## Punishment guidelines
The server's punishment guidelines is what our staff members use to help determine the severity of rule breaking and to aid them with issuing punishments of a certain duration. Not all cases fit the punishment guidelines which is why we allow our staff members wiggle room to interpret a punishment's severity. Staff members are not required, nor shouldn't follow any of these guidelines without regards to context. Staff members are expected to be interpretative, since otherwise it *will* result in unfair punishments.

Players are entitled to file an appeal for non-network offenses. If you believe your punishment was unfairly issued, and you believe it should be reduced or removed, follow the [appealing](#appealing) procedures.

### Additional guidelines information
Repeat offenses and violations of rules of any severity will result in a "bump" to the next severity level. Staff members are also given discretion here when determining additional severity levels to apply to an offense.

Staff members are not able to apply punishment durations on their own since it is decided by the system. Punishment lengths will increase depending on repeat offenses and increased severity levels.

### Chat offenses
Staff members are required to issue a verbal warning for all <span class="severity-1">Severity 1</span> offenses. If you have a previous violation of the same rule of any severity, an additional warning is not required before punishment.

For all <span class="severity-2">Severity 2</span>, <span class="severity-3">Severity 3</span> or <span class="severity-4">Severity 4</span> staff members are required to give no warning before punishment.

* Spam. Repeating messages consecutively to fill up the chat. This also includes excessive capitalization and cursing. (<span class="severity-1">Severity 1</span>)
* Trolling. Intentionally confusing or misleading another user. (<span class="severity-1">Severity 1</span>)
* Advertising:
  * Unintentionally advertising. Referring to other servers, or the names of them when the intent is clearly unintentional. (<span class="severity-1">Severity 1</span>)
  * Directly advertising. Referring to other servers, or the names of them when the intent is clearly intentional. (<span class="severity-3">Severity 3</span>)
  * Excessive advertising. Sending URLs, Discord invite links or server addresses unless in a private conversation when all parties have agreed to share or receive the invite link. (<span class="severity-4">Severity 4</span>)
* General rudeness and hostility. Being rude or causing heated arguments with other players. (<span class="severity-1">Severity 1</span>)
* General harassment. Deliberately harassing players after being asked to stop. (<span class="severity-2">Severity 2</span>)
* Impersonation. Pretending to be another user or any of our [staff ranks](../staff) or [titles](../hc/titles-and-honors) by using a nickname or through any other means. (<span class="severity-2">Severity 2</span>)
* Malicious threats. Threatening to DDoS or attack the server or another user. (<span class="severity-3">Severity 3</span>)
* Death threats:
  * Death wishes. Wishing death upon another user. (<span class="severity-3">Severity 3</span>)
  * Calls to action. Encouraging self-harm, threatening to attack another user, implying or suggesting action. (<span class="severity-4">Severity 4</span>)
* Discrimination. Using any term that is dictionary-defined offensive regardless of intent on the grounds of race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity. (<span class="severity-3">Severity 3</span> upon repeat <span class="severity-4">Severity 4</span>)
* Scamming. Defrauding someone through an unapproved or unauthorized transaction of money or using platforms to buy, sell or trade goods or services. (<span class="severity-4">Severity 4</span>)
* Sharing personal information. Revealing any identifying user of their identity or activities in real life unless the individual(s) have agreed to share the information. (<span class="severity-4">Severity 4</span>)

### Gameplay offenses
* Privacy invasions. Visiting players without their permission specifically to invade their privacy to antagonize them. (<span class="severity-1">Severity 1</span>)
* Obstruction. Interference with a staff member to accurately collect information or understand a situation during an investigation. (<span class="severity-3">Severity 3</span>)

<!-- <strong><span style="color: #B03A2E">Network Ban</span>:</strong> 
## Reporting procedures 
Sometimes the server's players have better insight into issues and rule-breaking that is taking place on the server at any point. -->

## Appealing procedures
Despite our best intentions, sometimes punishments on any of our sevices are issued in error or have unfair or unusal durations. As a result, we offer our members the opportunity to appeal their punishment. Appeals on the server are given careful review to help improve staff training and the server's community and punishment guidelines.

All appeal cases are given specific review and attention by a member of the server's [Executive](../hc/content-moderation#executive) team. The staff member who issued your punishment will not be aware of a pending appeal unless the case requires further review and comment from them. 

Before appealing, ensure that you understand the following agreements:
1. The information you intend to provide is correct to the best of your knowledge and that you understand withholding information or lying will result in stricter punishments
2. An override of a punishment is provided by the server and that players are not entitled to have their punishment communted or overturned
3. Filing any information incorrectly will result in your appeal being denied and could disqualify you from appealing in the future
4. You are appealing for legitimate interests and that you are submitting this application for yourself and no one else

<a class="button button--outline-primary button--rounded" href="../forms/appeal">File an appeal</a>

### After submitting
Once you have filed, do not share the status of your appeal with anyone as this can affect how the appeal is processed. You should not tell anyone (including a staff member if they ask) you have appealed or the details you've provided in your appeal. If a player or staff member pressures you for information on your appeal, follow the [reporting procedures](#reporting-procedures) and end contact with that user.

You should recieve a reply no later than nine days after you've appealed. If at the end of the day you have not recieved word from an Executive on the status of your appeal, feel free to get in touch with one.

## Reporting procedures
Sometimes our players are the best for spotting rule violations that occur on our platforms. We encourage our players that when they see something against the rules going on to say something. Much like the server's appeals, reports are given careful review so we can identify problem areas and where to devote content moderation resources.

All appeal cases are given specific review and attention by a member of the server's [Executive](../hc/content-moderation#executive) team. The user who you're reporting will not be aware of a pending report under any circumstances. 

Before reporting, ensure you understand the following agreements:
1. The information you intend to provide is correct to the best of your knowledge and that withholding information or lying could possibly result in a network punishment
2. Filing any information incorrectly will result in your report being closed and could disqualify you from reporting in the future
3. You are appealing for legitimate interests and that you are submitting this application for yourself and no one else

<a class="button button--outline-primary button--rounded" href="../forms/report">File a report</a>

### After submitting
Once you have filed, do not share the status of your report with anyone as this can affect how the report is processed. You should not tell anyone (including a staff member if they ask) you have reported someone or the details you've provided in your report. If a player or staff member pressures you for information in your report, file another report for conversation and end contact with that user.