---
title: Rules and regulations
permalink: /hc/rules-and-regulations
key: hc-rules and regulations
---

Our community's rules is how we keep things organized and make sure that everyone is doing what they're supposed to. If you notice that someone is in violation of the rules, you should follow the [reporting procedures](#reporting).

## Community guidelines
Our community guidelines are the ones that you can see on our [rules page](../rules). These guidelines are general, overall rules to help guide our members on how to conduct themselves in a way that we think should and shouldn't be allowed on our services. In most cases, if you don't think your conduct fits all of our "big five," it probably isn't allowed.

<a class="button button--outline-primary button--rounded" href="{{ site.baseurl}}/rules">Read our community guidelines</a>

## Punishment guidelines
The server's punishment guidelines is what our staff members use to help determine the severity of rule breaking, and to aid them with issuing punishments of a certain duration. Not all cases fit the punishment guidelines, which is why we allow our staff members wiggle room to interpret a punishment's severity.

If you believe your punishment was too strict or in error, you are entitled to file an [appeal](#appealing).

### Guidelines disclosure
As said earlier; staff members are not required, nor shouldn't, follow any of these guidelines without regards to context. Staff members are expected to be interpretative, since otherwise it *will* result in unfair punishments.

Repeat offenses and violations of rules of any severity will result in a "bump" to the next severity level. Staff members are also given discretion here when determining additional severity levels to apply to an offense.

### Chat offenses
* Spam. Repeating messages consecutively to fill up the chat. Includes excessive capitalization and cursing. <strong><span style="color: #239B56">Severity 1</span></strong>
* Trolling. Intentionally confusing or misleading someone. <strong><span style="color: #239B56">Severity 1</span></strong>
* Privacy invasions. Visiting players without their permission specifically to invade their privacy to antagonize them. <strong><span style="color: #239B56">Severity 1</span></strong>
* Advertising.
  * Unintentionally advertising. Referring to other servers, or the names of them when the intent is clearly unintentional. <strong><span style="color: #239B56">Severity 1</span></strong>
  * Directly advertising. Referring to other servers, or the names of them when the intent is clearly intentional. <strong><span style="color: #E67E22">Severity 3</span><strong>
  * Excessive advertising. Sending URLs, Discord invite links or server addresses unless in a private conversation when all parties have agreed to share or receive the invite link.<strong><span style="color: #C0392B">Severity 4</span></strong>
* General rudeness and hostility. Being rude or causing heated arguments with other members. <strong><span style="color: #239B56">Severity 1</span></strong>
* General harassment. Deliberately harassing members after being asked to stop. <strong><span style="color: #F1C40F">Severity 2</span><strong>
* Impersonation. Pretending to be another user by using a nickname or through any other means. <strong><span style="color: #F1C40F">Severity 2</span><strong>
* Malicious threats. Threatening to DDoS or attack the server or another user. <strong><span style="color: #E67E22">Severity 3</span><strong>
* Death threats. Wishing death upon someone, encouraging self-harm or threatening to attack another user. <strong><span style="color: #E67E22">Severity 3</span><strong>
* Discrimination. Using any term that is dictionary-defied offensive regardless of intent on the grounds of race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity. <strong><span style="color: #E67E22">Severity 3</span><strong> upon repeat <strong><span style="color: #C0392B">Severity 4</span></strong>


<!-- <strong><span style="color: #B03A2E">Network Ban</span>:</strong> -->
